DOCSP 13828: connection guide (#13)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/fundamentals/connection.txt

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

This guide shows you how to connect to a MongoDB instance or replica set
deployment using the Go Driver.

--------------
Connection URI
--------------

> The **connection URI** provides the set of instructions that the driver uses to

Author: accepted!

image explains each part of a sample connection URI:

.. figure:: /includes/figures/connection_string_parts.png
   :alt: Each part of the connection string

In this example, we use ``mongodb+srv`` for the protocol, which specifies the
:manual:`DNS Seedlist Connection Format
</reference/connection-string/#std-label-connections-dns-seedlist>`. This indicates
that the URI's hostname corresponds to the DNS SRV record of your
MongoDB instance or deployment. If your instance or deployment does not have a
DNS SRV record, use ``mongodb`` to specify the :manual:`Standard Connection
Format </reference/connection-string/#standard-connection-string-format>`.

.. note::

   If your deployment is on MongoDB Atlas, see the
   :atlas:`Atlas driver connection guide </driver-connection>`
   and select Go from the language dropdown to retrieve your connection string.

The next part of the connection string contains your username and, if
you are using password-based authentication, your password. Replace the value of
``user`` with your username and ``pass`` with your password. If you are using an
authentication mechanism that does not require a username and password, omit

> this section of the connection URI.

Author: accepted!

The next part of the connection string specifies the hostname or IP address and

> port of your MongoDB instance. In the example above, we use ``sample-hostname``

Author: changed to "example"

> as the hostname and ``27017``, the default port, as the port. Replace these values to point to

Author: accepted!

your MongoDB instance.

The last part of the connection string specifies connection and authentication
options. In the example, we set two connection options:
``poolSize=20`` and ``writeConcern=majority``. For more information on connection
options, read the :ref:`connection-options` section of this guide.

The code below shows how you can use the sample connection URI in a client to
connect to MongoDB.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/srv.go
   :language: go

> 

Author: Added note

Connect to ``localhost``
++++++++++++++++++++++++

> .. include:: /includes/localhost-connection.rst

Author: updated

------------------------
Connect to a Replica Set
------------------------

A MongoDB replica set deployment is a group of connected instances that
store the same set of data. This configuration provides data
redundancy and high data availability.

To connect to a replica set deployment, specify the hostname and port numbers
of each instance, separated by commas, and the replica set name as the value
of the ``replicaSet`` parameter in the connection string. In the following

> example, the replica set name is ``myRS``.

Reviewer: Suggestion: I love that you explain what the snippet is showing here! Let's also include the ports being connected to since that is part of what the user needs to specify.

Author: changed

.. code-block:: none

   mongodb://host1:27017,host2:27017,host3:27017/?replicaSet=myRS

When connecting to a replica set, the driver takes the following actions by default:

- Discovers all replica set members when given the address of any one member.

> - Dispatches operations to the appropriate member, such as a directive

Reviewer: Question: What do you mean by "a directive"?

Author: does "instructions" sound better?

  to write against the **primary**.

.. tip::

>    You only need to specify one host to connect to a replica set. However, to ensure connectivity if the specified host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You only need to specify one host to connect to a replica set. However, to ensure connectivity when the specified host
```

Author: accepted!

   is unavailable, you should provide the full list of hosts.

Direct Connection
+++++++++++++++++

To force operations on the host designated in the connection URI, specify the ``directConnection`` option. Direct
connections:

- Don't support SRV strings.
- Fail on writes when the specified host is not the **primary**.
- Require you to :manual:`enable secondary reads </reference/method/rs.secondaryOk/>`
  when the specified host isn't the **primary**.

.. _connection-options:

------------------

> Connection Options

Reviewer: This section looks good! But, I dug around a bit but couldn't find an exact link to verify the table in this section. Can you provide the link you used  so I can take a look in the next round of reviews?

Author: The ones in the table are the ones from [this link](https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver@v1.7.0/mongo/options#ClientOptions) that also say you can set them in the URI options. Added a tip box to the page with the same link.

Author: the order is currently random, let me know if that should be changed.

Reviewer: I think the ordering is fine, but for the tip box, I think it should be a statement at the end of the table like it is in the [Java docs](https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/java/sync/current/fundamentals/connection/#connection-options) and [Node docs](https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/node/current/fundamentals/connection/#connection-options)

- Don't support SRV strings.
- Fail on writes when the specified host is not the **primary**.
- Require you to :manual:`enable secondary reads </reference/method/rs.secondaryOk/>`
  when the specified host isn't the **primary**.

.. _connection-options:

------------------
Connection Options
------------------

This section explains several common MongoDB connection and authentication
options. You can pass the connection options as parameters of the connection
URI to specify the behavior of the client. 

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 10 15 40

   * - Option Name
     - Type
     - Default Value
     - Description

   * - **connectTimeoutMS**
     - integer
     - ``30000``
     - Specifies the number of milliseconds to wait before timeout on a TCP
       connection.

   * - **maxPoolSize**
     - integer
     - ``100``
     - Specifies the maximum number of connections that a connection pool may
       have at a given time.

   * - **maxIdleTimeMS**
     - integer
     - ``0``
     - Specifies the maximum amount of time a connection can remain idle
       in the connection pool before being removed and closed.

   * - **minPoolSize**
     - integer
     - ``0``

>      - Specifies the minimum number of connections that must exist at any moment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - Specifies the minimum number of connections the driver maintains
```

The driver will strive to maintain at least `minPoolSize` connections. However, when the client is warming up, or if the connection pool is cleared, there will be periods of time where the connection pool has less than `minPoolSize` connections available.

       in a single connection pool.

   * - **socketTimeoutMS**
     - integer
     - ``0``
     - Specifies the number of milliseconds to wait to find an

>        available, suitable server to execute an operation.

Reviewer 2: Consider noting that the default `0` indicates no timeout.

Author: added a comment to all options where applicable

   * - **serverSelectionTimeoutMS**
     - integer
     - ``30000``

>      - Specifies the number of milliseconds to wait before timeout on a TCP

Reviewer 2: I suggest updating this description. `serverSelectionTimeoutMS` is the amount of time the driver will wait on selecting an eligible server before timing out. This is not waiting on a TCP socket.

See https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver/blob/e78e29b57699dd1e7c0a0117755800db38d91450/mongo/options/clientoptions.go#L651:L653 for the description in the Go driver docs.

       socket.

>    * - **heartbeatIntervalMS**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * - **heartbeatFrequencyMS**
```

The Go driver supports both `heartbeatIntervalMS` and `heartbeatFrequencyMS`. `heartbeatFrequencyMS` is preferred since it is portable between drivers. It is specified in the [URI options specification](https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/blob/master/source/uri-options/uri-options.rst#list-of-specified-options).

     - integer

>      - ``0``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - ``10000``
```

The default is 10 seconds

https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver/blob/e78e29b57699dd1e7c0a0117755800db38d91450/mongo/options/clientoptions.go#L492:L492

     - Specifies the number of milliseconds to wait between periodic
       background server checks.

   * - **tls**
     - boolean
     - ``false``
     - Specifies whether to establish a Transport Layer Security (TLS)
       connection with the instance. This is automatically set to ``true``
       when using a DNS seedlist (SRV) in the connection string. You can
       override this behavior by setting the value to ``false``.

>    * - **writeConcern**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * - **w**
```

See https://github.com/kevinAlbs/mongo-go-driver/blob/cdacb6473abf8f2abaac11f58b7577fbd148440e/mongo/options/clientoptions.go#L654-L667

   :alt: Each part of the connection string

In this example, we use ``mongodb+srv`` for the protocol, which specifies the
:manual:`DNS Seedlist Connection Format
</reference/connection-string/#std-label-connections-dns-seedlist>`. This indicates
that the URI's hostname corresponds to the DNS SRV record of your
MongoDB instance or deployment. If your instance or deployment does not have a
DNS SRV record, use ``mongodb`` to specify the :manual:`Standard Connection
Format </reference/connection-string/#standard-connection-string-format>`.

.. note::

   If your deployment is on MongoDB Atlas, see the
   :atlas:`Atlas driver connection guide </driver-connection>`
   and select Go from the language dropdown to retrieve your connection string.

The next part of the connection string contains your username and, if
you are using password-based authentication, your password. Replace the value of
``user`` with your username and ``pass`` with your password. If you are using an
authentication mechanism that does not require a username and password, omit
this part of the connection URI.

The next part of the connection string specifies the hostname or IP address and

> port of your MongoDB instance. In the example above, we use ``sample-hostname``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
port of your MongoDB instance. In the preceding example, we use ``sample-hostname``
```

as the hostname and ``27017`` as the port. Replace these values to point to
your MongoDB instance.

The last part of the connection string specifies connection and authentication
options. In the example, we set two connection options:
``poolSize=20`` and ``writeConcern=majority``. For more information on connection
options, read the :ref:`connection-options` section of this guide.

> The code below shows how you can use the sample connection URI in a client to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code shows how you can use the sample connection URI in a client to
```

connect to MongoDB.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/srv.go
   :language: go

.. note::

   For information about connecting to Atlas Serverless, see the
   `Serverless Instance Limitations page
   <https://docs.atlas.mongodb.com/reference/serverless-instance-limitations/#minimum-driver-versions-for-serverless-instances>`__
   to identify the minimum driver version you need.

Connect to a MongoDB Server on Your Local Machine
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. include:: /includes/localhost-connection.rst

To test whether you can connect to your server, replace the connection
string with your localhost connection string in the preceding code example.

------------------------
Connect to a Replica Set
------------------------

A MongoDB replica set deployment is a group of connected instances that
store the same set of data. This configuration provides data
redundancy and high data availability.

To connect to a replica set deployment, specify the hostname and port numbers
of each instance, separated by commas, and the replica set name as the value

> of the ``replicaSet`` parameter in the connection string. In the following

Reviewer 2: Optional: Since the `replicaSet` option is referenced, should this be included in the table of "Connection Options"?

Author: Yes, will include.

.. figure:: /includes/figures/connection_string_parts.png
   :alt: Each part of the connection string

In this example, we use ``mongodb`` for the protocol, which specifies the
:manual:`Standard Connection String Format
</reference/connection-string/#std-label-connections-standard-connection-string-format>`.
You can also use the :manual:`DNS Seed List Connection Format
</reference/connection-string/#dns-seed-list-connection-format>` if you
want more flexibility of deployment and the ability to change the

> servers in rotation without reconfiguring clients.

Reviewer 2: Nice! I see the image was updated to use the `mongodb` protocol and the `maxPoolSize` / `w` options. The [stage link](https://docs-mongodbcom-staging.corp.mongodb.com/golang/docsworker-xlarge/DOCSP-13828-connection-guide/fundamentals/connection/) in the description shows the old image. Is that link out of date? It looks like the text content is updated.

Author: Thanks for catching that! I had referenced an incorrect path.

     - integer
     - ``0``
     - Specifies the maximum amount of time a connection can remain idle
       in the connection pool before being removed and closed. The ``0``

>        default value indicates that there is no idle time allowance.

Reviewer 2: I suggest using the description from the Go driver [options package documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo/options#ClientOptions.SetMaxConnIdleTime):

> The default is 0, meaning a connection can remain unused indefinitely.

The default means that the driver never considers connections that have not been used to time out.
